---
layout: post
title: Intro to Machine Learning
subtitle: Machines Acting like Humans
categories: ML
tags: [machine learning, frameworks]
mermaid: false
---

## What is Machine Learning **(ML)**?
Machine Learning is a part of Artificial Intelligence **(AI)** which uses algorithms & datasets to teach computers, mimicking the way humans learn, to predict future results.

## Types of Machine Learning:
1. **Supervised Learning:** Data is labelled/categorized.
2. **Unsupervised Learning:** Data is **not** labelled/categorized.
3. **Transfer Learning:** Reusage of a pre-trained model
4. **Reinforcement Learning:** Teaching a machine by trial & error, and repition.

## Main Types of Machine Learning:
1. Supervised Learning:
    - Has **Data** & **Labels**.
    - An ML Algorithm tries to use the data to predict a label.
    - If the algorithm's prediction is wrong, it corrects itself & tries again, which is why it's called **Supervised Learning**.
    - A supervised learning algorithm repeats the previous process over & over in order to become better.
    - Types of Supervised Learning:
        1. Classification
            - To predict if something is one thing or another.
            - **Binary Classification**: When there are only 2 options.
            - ** Multi-class Classification**: When there
        2. Regression
            - To predict a continuos value.
            - Example: predicting the price of a house.

2. Unsupervised Learning
    - Only has **Data**, but **no Labels**.
3. Transfer Learning
    - **Transfer Learning** is when elements of a pre-trained model are reused in a new machine learning model.
4. *Reinforcement Learning*
    - **Reinforcement learning** is a machine learning training method based on rewarding desired behaviors and/or punishing undesired ones. 
    - Teaching a machine by trial & error, and repition.


## Machine Learning & Data Science Framework:

This is an iterative process.

1. **Problem Definition:** What's the problem?
2. **Data:** What's the data we have?
3. **Evaluation:** What's a success?
4. **Features:** What features to model?
5. **Modeling:** What kind of model should we use?
6. **Experimentation:** What have we tried/can we try?

### 1. Problem Definition:
What problem are we trying to solve?
1. Supervised Learning?
2. Unsupervised Learning?
3. Classification?
4. Regression?

### 2. Data:
What kind of Data do we have?
1. Structured? (Rows & Columns)
2. Unstructured? (Audio, Video, Images, etc.)

### 3. Evaluation:
What defines success for this problem?

Example: This model should have an accuracy of 90% at predicting prices of houses in a certain area.

### 4. Features:
What do we already know about the data?

Example: Using body weight, from a table of various info about patients, to determine if a patient has a heart disease. 

### 5. Modeling:
Based on the problem & data we have, which model should we use?

Using the right model for the a kind of problem.

### 6. Experimentation:
When testing model on data, success might not be achieved.

Repeat the 6 steps to achieve success.


